Readme.md, before:

# apollo-job-board-api

A practice GraphQL API using Apollo, Express, and Prisma.

Aim of the project is to get some experience with a Node.js stack by recreating my previous GraphQL [project](https://github.com/MihaiAC/strawberry-job-board-api), which used Strawberry, FastAPI, and SQLAlchemy.

Here, I will only talk about the differences between these two projects and will focus less on testing.

## Diffs

1. `process.env` to hold environment variables (Node.js default), dotenv to load vars from .env to `process.env`.

2. `var!` basic TS feature to mark that `var` is not `null` or `undefined`.

3. Lots and lots of small extra packages everywhere, with functionality that should have maybe been included in the bigger packages? But this is the JavaScript way.

4. With SQLAlchemy, I didn't have to run migrations. Way to work with Prisma:

- Run `prisma generate`.
- Somewhere, run `prisma db push` - only on init. For future schema changes, etc. have to run `prisma migrate deploy`. Since the schema doesn't change in this toy example, I guess I will only run `prisma db push`.

5. Watch for changes with `npx tsx watch src/index.ts`.

6. Handling schema changes.

Drop tables -> run `npx prisma migrate reset --force ` (optional?) -> run `npx prisma generate` (re-generates the Prisma client) -> run `npx prisma db push` (syncs Prisma schema with db schema, good for quick prototyping).

Put together into `./reset-db.sh`.

7. Adding Jobs and dataloaders.

Extra packages: dataloader, @graphql-tools/merge (merge multiple graphql schema defs into one), @graphql-tools/load-files (for loading the files to be merged).

8. Correct PrismaClient import from the generated prisma files.
   `import { PrismaClient } from "../../prisma/generated";`

## Remaining questions

1. How are errors handled here? In Strawberry + FastAPI I would get pretty ok errors by default (not too informative, not too short, just right). With this stack do I need to explicitly check every error and return a human readable version of it?

2. How to init db with some dummy data on load? Read something about "seed".

## References

1. [Prisma + Apollo minimal example](https://www.prisma.io/apollo).
2. [PrismaClient correct import](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/discussions/19669).

Commit message:

Improve schema, add User and Application tables.

Readme.md, after:

# apollo-job-board-api

A practice GraphQL API using Apollo, Express, and Prisma.

Aim of the project is to get some experience with a Node.js stack by recreating my previous GraphQL [project](https://github.com/MihaiAC/strawberry-job-board-api), which used Strawberry, FastAPI, and SQLAlchemy.

Here, I will only talk about the differences between these two projects and will focus less on testing.

## Diffs

1. `process.env` to hold environment variables (Node.js default), dotenv to load vars from .env to `process.env`.

2. `var!` basic TS feature to mark that `var` is not `null` or `undefined`.

3. Lots and lots of small extra packages everywhere, with functionality that should have maybe been included in the bigger packages? But this is the JavaScript way.

4. With SQLAlchemy, I didn't have to run migrations. Way to work with Prisma:

- Run `prisma generate`.
- Somewhere, run `prisma db push` - only on init. For future schema changes, etc. have to run `prisma migrate deploy`. Since the schema doesn't change in this toy example, I guess I will only run `prisma db push`.

5. Watch for changes with `npx tsx watch src/index.ts`.

6. Handling schema changes.

Drop tables -> run `npx prisma migrate reset --force ` (optional?) -> run `npx prisma generate` (re-generates the Prisma client) -> run `npx prisma db push` (syncs Prisma schema with db schema, good for quick prototyping).

Put together into `./reset-db.sh`.

7. Adding Jobs and dataloaders.

Extra packages: dataloader, @graphql-tools/merge (merge multiple graphql schema defs into one), @graphql-tools/load-files (for loading the files to be merged).

8. Correct PrismaClient import from the generated prisma files.
   `import { PrismaClient } from "../../prisma/generated";`

9. Can add an Enum as a Prisma field type then import it from the generated files.

10. Adding DB indexes with Prisma is pretty easy (e.g: `@@index([userId])`)

## Remaining questions

1. Q: How are errors handled here? In Strawberry + FastAPI I would get pretty ok errors by default (not too informative, not too short, just right). With this stack do I need to explicitly check every error and return a human readable version of it?

A: Errors are not nice, full stack trace in the graphQL response (not sane). Package to fix that? _sigh_ vs manually handling every error code?

2. How to init db with some dummy data on load? Read something about "seed".

3. How to add email validation for user and employer email?

4. How to set length limits on DB fields?

## References

1. [Prisma + Apollo minimal example](https://www.prisma.io/apollo).
2. [PrismaClient correct import](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/discussions/19669).
